Initial treasury docs (#5678)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-polkadot-opengov-treasury.md

:::

## Sub-treasuries

> The Polkadot treasury currently operates under a single account on-chain. The above tracks manage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} treasury currently operates under a single account on-chain. The above tracks manage
```

the treasury and represent the funds on the network. However, creating _sub_-treasuries that

> correspond to each collective is also possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
correspond to each [collective](./learn-system-chains#collectives) is also possible.
```

Rather than have many amount of referenda on the relay chain, the overarching Polkadot Treasury can
allocate funds to each sub-treasury (through governance), of which each respective collective can

> pay out as needed, depending on their specific rule set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rather than have many referenda on the relay chain, the overarching {{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} Treasury can allocate funds to each sub-treasury (through [governance](./learn-polkadot-opengov)), from which each respective collective can spend funds (depending on their specific rule set).
```

Sub-treasuries are different instances of the treasury pallet. New treasuries could be added to

> respective system chains through governance by adding more instances of this pallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New treasuries could be added to respective [system chains](./learn-system-chains#existing-system-chains) through governance by adding more instances of this pallet.
```

For now, you will most likely see new treasuries being added in association to various collectives,

> such as the _Fellowship Treasury_ on the _Collectives_ system parachain.

Reviewer: I would remove this as it will create more work for us when this does not hold anymore in the future.

## Multi-Asset Treasury Support

The use of [cross-consensus messaging](./learn-xcm.md) would also mean that these treasuries can

> support multiple asset types, and thus can spend assets other than DOT held within the treasury.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support multiple asset types, and thus can spend assets other than {{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} held within the treasury.
```

These assets have a few requirements:

1. The asset is listed on the [AssetHub system parachain](https://assethub-polkadot.subscan.io/).

> 2. The asset has sufficient liquidity/support.

Reviewer: how is this defined? What is the minimum liquidity?

Author: Good question - I'll ask about this specifically.

Author: From my understanding, "sufficient liquidity" just referring to the fact that the token is active and liquid, i.e, just not some random currency. I'm not sure there is some minimum volume or limit required here.

Author: This is indeed the case ^^ resolving!

> 2. The asset has sufficient liquidity/support.

Reviewer: how is this defined? What makes an asset sufficiently liquid?

Author: (appears to be a repeat of the above comment, so resolving)

> 3. The asset has a set conversion rate, as per OpenGov referenda on the Treasurer track (set via the

Reviewer: Can we specify what the "conversion rate" means? Is it the X/DOT rate (X is the asset)?

Author: yes, it is defined as the following in the pallet: 

`an asset to its fixed point representation in the native balance.`

such that: 

`native_amount = asset_amount * ConversionRateToNative::<T>::get(asset_kind)`

so one could translate the amount of USDT to the appropriate amount of DOT, for example, and this value is stored on-chain.

   asset rate pallet).

> 4. The asset must be approved and onboarded via OpenGov to become spendable via the treasury as a

Reviewer: Can we expand a little on this? What is a valid spend method? Can we make a tangible example like for example with USDT?

Author: For now, I added a link to this forum post -  but we can replace this with our own guide later: https://forum.polkadot.network/t/multi-asset-treasury-and-milestone-based-spends/6780

:::

## Sub-treasuries

> The {{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} treasury currently operates under
> a single account on-chain. The above tracks manage the treasury and represent the funds on the
> network. However, creating _sub_-treasuries that correspond to each
> [collective](./learn-system-chains#collectives) is also possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} treasury currently operates on
a single account on-chain. The above tracks manage the outflow of the treasury on the
network. With _sub_-treasuries, having treasury accounts that correspond to each
[collective](./learn-system-chains#collectives) is also possible.
```

> Rather than have many referenda on the relay chain, the overarching

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rather than have many referenda through OpenGov, the
```

{{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} Treasury can allocate funds to each
sub-treasury (through [governance](./learn-polkadot-opengov)), from which each respective collective
can spend funds (depending on their specific rule set).

New treasuries could be added to respective
[system chains](./learn-system-chains#existing-system-chains) through governance by adding more
instances of this pallet.

## Multi-Asset Treasury Support

> The use of [cross-consensus messaging](./learn-xcm.md) would also mean that these treasuries can
> support multiple asset types, and thus can spend assets other than
> {{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} held within the treasury. These assets have a
> few requirements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The treasuries can support multiple asset types and thus can spend assets other than
{{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} held within the treasury, and their transfers and interactions across the chains facilitated by [cross-consensus messaging](./learn-xcm.md). These assets have a
few requirements:
```

1. The asset is listed on the [AssetHub system parachain](https://assethub-polkadot.subscan.io/).
2. The asset is active and has sufficient liquidity to be utilized for payouts.
3. The asset has a set conversion rate, as per OpenGov referenda on the Treasurer track (set via the

>    asset rate pallet). This conversion rate defines a fixed-rate representation for converting from

Reviewer 2: Is this true? How can the conversion rate be fixed, given the assets are volatile?

Author: Sorry, I meant a **fixed** point, not a fixed rate, although I think that is the case anyway, as the rate is a `FixedI128` set in the StorageMap and can be updated.  not sure what the strategy is to maintain it unless I am misunderstanding something.

For more detail, take a look here, and how the rate is set in the pallet: https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/475e7a147676a4e7a9d255ddc7969dd35ea22882/substrate/frame/asset-rate/src/lib.rs#L18
